# Quick start: creating a new project  #
    
    git archive git@github.com:huyng/baseapp.git
    mv baseapp my_new_application
    cd my_new_application
    python bootstrap.py
    source env/bin/activate


## About Baseapp ##

**Baseapp** is the standard template for applications.  Its goal is to provide a stable platform for developing and deploying code in a reproducible & reliable fashion.

At its core, **baseapp** contains a lightweight directory structure, and a few scripts to ease the deployment of your applications. Here's a brief overview of all files included in baseapp:

        * bootstrap.py          # this script will build a development environment that can be reproduced across machines
        * test.sh               # running tests for your project should be as simple as typing "bash test.sh"

        * deps                  # 3rd party shared library and dependencies
            * requirements.txt  # A text file containing a list of dependencies needed to run your code

        * application           # your application code
            * logger.py         # logging utilities for your application
            * env.py            # utilities to manipulate your applications environment
            * main.py           # your application entry point

        * scripts               # extra scripts and tools needed for your application
        - env                   # The virtual environment generated by bootstrap.py
        * conf                  # place your configuration files here (e.g. nginx.conf, apache.conf, daemon.conf)

    
    key:
    * files/dirs kept under source control
    - files/dirs generated during development (not tracked in source control)



## Virtulenv ##

Python applications often depend on 3rd party libraries and other modules to run. In order to track all of these dependencies, we use [virtualenv](http://www.virtualenv.org/en/latest/index.html). This tool allows us to install all of these 3rd party dependencies into a self-contained location, the `env` folder, that can easily be reproduced from one machine to another.

To ensure that your project contains all the required dependencies, add them to the `deps/requirements.txt` file. Once satisfied, you can run `python bootstrap.py` to build your virtual environment. If `bootstrap.py` completes successfully, your project should now contain the `env` directory. 

Modules installed into your virtualenv will not be visible to the system python installation until you "activate" the virtualenv. To do so, run 

    source env/bin/activate

Once this is done, any scripts you run with python will have access to the 3rd party modules. In order to exit out of the virtualenv, run the command below from your terminal:

    deactivate
